Previously on The Testaments...
You're listening to Radio Free Boston
with an urgent warning for...
- Is something happening?
- Gilead's retaliating
for what happened with the bus.
- What's going on?
- The Aunts decide our contenders today.
Two to three suitors each. usually.
Then house visits.
Then weddings.
Jehosheba wants power.
Hulda. security.
Agnes. I'm not sure what she wants.
Not yet.
Let's begin. shall we?
Who wants to get married. anyway?
After what happened at the Ball.
you should be throwing yourself
at the mercy of Aunt Lydia.
Well maybe I'll get lucky.
and I won't get any offers.
What is wrong with you?
This is our whole lives!
Some people would give
anything for the right match.
May I have this dance?
In His grace.
If Commander MacKenzie
is meeting with the Japanese.
we think he might be brokering
a deal for artillery...
- How the fuck am I supposed to...
- Lower your voice.
I don't think Agnes
will know anything about that.
- I'm in love.
- Who?
Garth.
He's soon to be made a Commander.
I thought perhaps you might
make him eligible.
I shall think the matter over.
Only a few open slots left.
I have another one to add to the mix.
Garth Chapin.
- He's not eligible.
- He will be. Soon enough.
Time to tell the girls' families.
- Let me help you.
- Why?
Because I know how you're feeling.
Stay here.
Someone's gonna come get you.
You're leaving me alone?
You are never alone.
This is Radio Free Boston with an update.
Gilead Forces' recent
attempt to invade Boston
was unsuccessful.
and loss of life for Gilead was high.
The violence at the border
has prompted dignitaries from Canada
and the American government
to convene with the UN...
Of course. that's not
what people here were told.
Even if someone in Gilead knew the truth.
who was gonna tell?
Not me. That's for sure.
If I was discovered as Mayday.
I would be tortured and killed.
More coffee?
Uh. no. Thanks.
June had told me to wait.
That someone would come get me.
I waited.
But no one came.
Sorry to kick you out.
Where do you have to be?
Here. I need to be here.
Well. on the bright side.
tomorrow's supposed to be
a beautiful May day.
It's fucking March!
Ah. I didn't think you'd last.
June was right.
Come on. My car's parked
around the corner.
I'm taking you to your next stop.
Daisy?
Talia? It's time for your treatment.
Praise be. Agnes.
Your matches are a success.
Is this it?
He has smiled upon you.
These are men chosen by God.
Leaders of Gilead.
This is Commander Weston.
All three men are powerful.
but this is the Commander to impress.
How 'bout a little excitement. hm?
By some miracle. you've done well.
And if you keep it up.
you'll live a very comfortable life.
'Member? God has a plan for us all.
Steady now.
Remember. the sting is there
to remind you of your sin.
What was yours?
A name. "Claudia."
Who's Claudia?
My mom.
I haven't spoken to her since I was eight.
I'm not really sure why I got it.
What's yours?
A rose with thorns.
I was drunk.
How basic.
Commander Olson has a beachfront
property with over 50 acres.
but Commander Pierce
has a 10 handicap in golf.
Is that good or bad?
My dad says that it's really good.
Agnes. who did you get?
Uh. Commander Pritzger.
Commander Riley.
and Commander Weston.
Praise be!
Paula's probably peeing herself right now.
Weston runs the Eyes. my Martha says.
Well. why isn't he married already?
He was married. His wife died.
That's so sad.
You'll get to go
to all the state functions.
and you'll probably get a million Marthas.
I'll miss Rosa.
Well. if you marry Weston.
Paula will probably give her to you
as a wedding present.
Uh... have you gotten any matches?
- Mm.
- That's awesome!
Praise be His mercy. seriously.
Who?
Commander Maddox.
Oh. yuck. I'm sorry.
He's the one that tried
to get you drunk. right?
Tried? He succeeded.
Commander from the Colonies.
And... Commander Chapin.
I've never heard of him.
He's not actually a Commander yet.
Who is he?
My Guardian.
Oh. him?
No. your parents are not
going to take him seriously.
He's certainly blessed
in a lot of respects.
Praise be.
Becka. pray. slow down.
I have to use
the bathroom before class.
Please. I'm not mad at you!
We don't choose our matches.
I told you! I never wanted any of this!
Just please don't marry him.
I don't get to choose any of this!
My parents are going
to choose my husband.
Nobody cares what I want!
I don't want to marry anyone!
I want to jump off a cliff!
Don't be so dramatic!
See?
See?!
You don't even care.
I always hoped that you and I
were the same.
but... maybe we're not.
It's like you want to be little forever.
I actually want a husband and babies.
but you're the one
that gets him as a match.
That's Commander Weston.
He's your match. right?
Yeah. That's him.
Commander... what can I do for you?
We'd like your permission to enter.
I need to speak with Aunt Lydia.
New intel recovered
from Boston has led us here.
Are you gonna deny us entry?
No. of course not. Commander.
Thank you.
Let's go!
They're investigating
the Mayday attack.
I overheard my father this morning.
Shu is like a spy. honestly.
Do you think they're gonna cancel class?
Probably not.
Unless they have to hang somebody.
because that could take all day.
Hey.
You were asleep for 14 hours.
I was starting to worry about you.
Where's Linda?
Oh. she dropped you off.
This is my place. I'm Rita.
Uh. first things first.
I have a friend in Immigration
who is making a new passport for you
so we can get you out of Canada.
Out where?
Well...
...the UK has retinal scans now.
so that's not an option anymore.
So. I got you on a freight plane
that leaves on Saturday for Colombia.
Colombia?
Like. South America?
Yes. We have a contact on the ground
that will get you re-homed
and put in a school...
I don't even speak Spanish.
Oh. you'll learn.
I don't want to go to Colombia.
I want to go home.
This is so fucking unfair!
Yes. it is.
They're the ones that should have to hide!
- Loaded up like freight on a plane...
- Do you like cats?
What?
Some people find it therapeutic
to pet an animal.
They killed my parents.
I know.
Gilead will always be looking for you.
So. as long as you are in Canada.
you're in danger.
No one's ever said that.
like... ever.
- It's good.
- Thank you.
I'm in culinary school.
Nice to have your own life.
Yes. it is.
I didn't for a very long time.
Listen. Melanie and Neil
knew this was a possibility.
They set aside some money for you.
It's not much.
but it was a lot for them.
They should've told me.
Do you know anything
about my real parents?
Just that they got you out of Gilead.
They wanted a better life for you.
You're like their Moses.
Are they still there?
No.
They're not alive anymore.
Fuck Gilead.
I'm trying my best.
Thank you for picking it up.
Yeah.
Okay. so let me know when you want me
to pick her up on Saturday.
I'm not gonna run away.
I can't just keep running my whole life.
I wanna join you.
Mayday.
You are hurt and confused. And angry.
And anger gives you adrenaline.
Makes you feel brave.
What's wrong with being brave?
I said. "Feel brave."
There's a difference.
I wanna talk to June.
Okay. I'll. uh. I'll call you later.
I'm serious.
I'm not getting on that plane.
They killed my parents.
And I can't let them get away with that.
So. if you guys don't let me join you.
I'll find some other way to fight.
Let me talk to June.
Wait. wait. wait.
Uh. we've done it before.
Yeah. but not with a minor.
It's probably illegal.
June has a plan how to do it.
She's just been waiting for a girl
the right age to come along...
Well. of course. June has a plan.
I mean. it's not as if she doesn't
have a horse in the race.
But this kid is emotional.
She's just lost her parents.
Besides. she doesn't
understand what this is.
Yes. I do.
We learned about Mayday in school
when we studied the American War.
Also. stop talking about me
in front of me like I'm not even here.
Let me help.
I've got nothing left to lose.
Sure. you do.
Do you know if you're fruitful?
Fruitful?
Uh. have you gotten your period?
No. But no one does.
I only know one girl who got it.
Talia. Mary.
Daisy. Sara.
Commander Weston
would like to speak to you.
This hurt way more than
I thought it would.
- Yeah?
- Mm.
If you think that's spicy.
wait until you get it removed.
Funny.
Soon as you're in Gilead.
they're gonna laser that thing off.
Then why the hell did you make me get it?
Look. have you ever seen
a panhandler on Queen Street without one?
Some Mayday contact
working for the city
had already got me an ID
with a new last name.
"sin" number.
even a rap sheet for petty theft.
We should've gotten you a daisy.
My name's actually Marguerite.
Daisy's just a nickname.
Well. Gilead doesn't know it.
and so we put it on your passport.
And now it's just your name.
And daisies can grow almost anywhere.
Are you gonna teach me how
to kill someone with just my thumbs?
You know? Learn how to protect myself?
Okay.
You protect yourself
by following their rules.
And don't trust anyone
except your handler.
Because at some point.
you are gonna get lonely.
and it's natural to want a friend.
Who?
I mean. for fuck's sake.
those girls think the Earth is flat
and can't even do multiplication.
Don't ever underestimate them.
Ever!
They have spent their lives being
vigilant in a way that you never have.
So. if you go in there thinking
that you are smarter than them.
you will die.
Do you understand me?!
Okay. Yeah.
You may have a seat.
Daisy? Is that your name?
Yes. sir.
Would you like a glass of water?
There's nothing to be nervous about.
I just need to ask you some questions.
Whenever anyone says.
"There's nothing to be nervous about."
they're lying.
If only I had learned
to kill someone with my thumbs.
You were on the school bus
that was attacked.
That must have been very scary.
Yes.
It was.
Did you notice anything strange that day?
Beforehand?
Anyone behaving differently?
No. sir.
I heard you were very good in a crisis.
You came here recently. yes?
Tell me about your family
back in Toronto.
Um. I was born in Windsor.
My dad worked for a cell phone company.
and my other dad worked in retail.
Okay. and what school
did you go to?
Abbey Canyon.
But I dropped out in grade six
to hitchhike with my boyfriend to Toronto.
Good.
All these dudes are so creepy.
Okay. focus.
They're going to interrogate you.
More than once.
We've already been through all this stuff.
I was a good student. you know.
I'm gonna go to college.
Well. when I'm back. I guess.
Being a spy will make
for a killer personal essay.
Just get "spy" out of your head.
You are a sponge.
You are there to gather information
and then pass it on to your handler.
What did Linda mean when she said
June had a horse in the race?
You don't need to know that.
June has a daughter.
In Gilead.
And she's about your age.
That sucks.
Mm-hmm.
Before Gilead. this guy worked in crypto.
and now he's a Commander?
Oh. and he's racked up
a couple of restraining orders
for domestic violence.
Just memorize their faces.
Makes it easier when you
don't know much about them.
Hey. What happened once
you went to Toronto?
My boyfriend and I broke up.
and I bounced around for a bit.
I got in a bit of trouble. and. uh...
I wound up living on the streets.
Very dramatic.
Yes. sir.
The Pearl Girls saved my life.
That's not true.
Breathe. you dumb bitch. breathe.
God saved your life.
Yes.
Praise be His mercy.
Well.
I wish you the best of luck here.
You may go.
Under His eye.
Pray. what's the matter?
Nothing.
I'm fine.
I was just questioned by the Eyes.
Okay.
They talked to all of us.
The Pearl Girls. I mean.
They're here to protect us.
To protect you.
They're going to find
the people who hurt us.
I know.
But...
They have a way of making you feel
like you've done something wrong.
That's what they do.
I realize. with...
all this marriage stuff.
I've kind of left you
to figure things out on your own.
I'm supposed to be your shepherdess
like Aunt Lydia said.
So. do you want to come to my house today?
After school?
I don't need you to feel sorry for me
just because Aunt Lydia made you.
I don't feel sorry for you.
I admire you.
You're really brave.
To come here. on your own.
I mean. if the roles were reversed.
and I was in a terrible situation
like you were.
would I have the strength
to do what you did?
I don't think I would.
Yeah. have a good one.
You're safe here.
Hi. You want one?
- Here you go.
- Thanks.
Can I get a bottle of water. please?
Do you know that God loves you?
Fuck off. you creepy bitch.
Rita had warned me not to be too eager.
I've seen you around.
You've been out here for a while.
We're staying at a hotel
around the corner.
You're welcome to come
and take a hot shower.
I can get you something nicer than that.
Do you like spaghetti?
So. what's the catch?
No catch. We're just here to show you
that you are one of God's children.
There's laundry there. too.
You can wash your clothes.
Are you gonna. like.
watch me take a shower?
You religious types
are always kinda kinky.
Have you given any thought to your future?
Room service have
a sundae on the menu.
I'm thinking that'll be
in my near future.
I mean. do you feel like you're
living up to your full potential?
It's not your fault.
Society has discarded you.
It's forced you to fend for yourself.
In Gilead. women are valued
and cherished.
They're respected.
I heard...
...women are kept as sex slaves.
And what about here?
How are women treated?
Think about why you've been told that.
If women here knew that they'd
be treated like gold in Gilead.
they would all want to live there.
Mm. Sweet!
They don't want you
to question the status quo.
Don't you think you deserve better
than what you've received?
Shh! Give me a second.
I want to see what happens.
The bird blows him up with dynamite.
Thought you weren't allowed to watch TV.
I don't miss it.
You'd be amazed.
Once you let go of all the things
that waste your time.
how quickly you feel fulfilled.
Well. see ya.
Uh. wait. Hold on.
I knew it. I knew there'd be a catch.
You're welcome to leave
any time you'd like.
We'd just like to say a prayer for you.
Lord. our God. please protect
this precious child of Yours.
and let her know that she is loved by You.
Let her understand
that she is worthy of love.
Not just the love of others.
but of herself.
Let her know that she is not alone.
she has never been alone.
and she will never be alone.
You know those pictures
where. at first. you see either
an old hag or a beautiful woman?
Then someone shows you the trick
and you can see the other.
After that. you can flip back and forth.
But now you know they're both there.
You can't unsee the other picture.
No matter how hard you try.
This is a serious dollhouse.
It'll be put in storage soon.
Once I'm engaged.
Saved for my daughter.
God willing.
This dress is for my Home Visits.
With my matches.
I don't know anyone in real life
who has a bedroom like this.
It's like someone's Mood Board.
Is that a good thing?
It's the bedroom of every
little girl's dreams. basically.
I've never seen the Pearl Girl dormitory.
Why would you?
The Eyes searched it.
The dormitory.
They searched my house once.
When I was younger. in Colorado.
They even took things.
But nothing came of it.
What was your bedroom like?
From before?
Um. normal. I guess.
A bed. a desk.
posters on the wall
of my favorite bands.
Like who?
The Replacements. The Sundays.
I guess I wouldn't know any of them.
I'm not gonna sing it for you if that's
what you're trying to get me to do.
You know.
The usual shoe-gazing. emo stuff.
Songs about falling in love.
breaking up. being dumped.
feeling sad about it.
Or. like...
...anthems about being single
and a badass.
I like working out to those ones.
Or. I did.
What?
It sounds horrible.
Well. you haven't heard it yet.
Not the music. Living that way.
I mean. I guess it sounds
kinda bad the way I said it.
And sure. dating or whatever can be hard.
but it can also be amazing
when you find the right person.
At least we got to choose.
We don't need that here.
It's a lot less confusing.
It's because your worth
has already been decided for you.
You don't even need a personality.
Pray. I'm sorry.
Obviously. there is much wisdom
to how it is done here.
It's just... very foreign to me.
These are things I found in the garden.
Or at the beach.
I made up stories about
who owned them before.
You probably know what they all are.
But like. I thought this was given
as a token of love.
Oh. man.
Shady gas stations used
to have these for addicts.
They just put the flower in them.
so they don't get in trouble
for selling crack pipes.
I don't understand.
Explain.
Where do I even begin?
I realized I was an asshole.
Why destroy her fantasy
with an ugly reality?
Life was about to do that for her.
And without my help.
Yeah... I mean. you're close.
This is for Valentine's Day.
You're lying.
You don't trust me.
No. I just like your version better.
There are some messed-up
things where I'm from.
and...
And I guess I just sort of
became used to seeing them.
I got used to seeing people in pain.
suffering.
And I shouldn't have.
I guess maybe I should try that on.
Please.
We're honored to have you here.
We've always felt our Hulda
to be a special young woman.
...pious. meek. obedient.
A product of Gilead's teachings.
A daughter who.
in the benevolence of God's grace...
...has grown into the kind of young woman
Mrs. MacKenzie and I
had always hoped she'd be.
I'm so glad to hear that.
All important qualities.
And pleasing to the eye as well.
Praise be His gifts.
Clearly a very well-bred girl.
A credit to the two of you.
And perhaps even more impressive
that she was able to become
such a Godly girl.
in spite of her conception.
Praise be.
Thank you for honoring us with your visit.
I don't care if he's in charge
of economic growth. He's insufferable.
Well. by God's grace. we have
other suitors paying us a visit.
Welcome to our home.
Is it Commander Chapin?
Not yet. sir. Um. not officially.
In a few weeks.
You live in
the Guardian barracks. correct?
Yes. sir.
So. where do you plan
to settle after marriage?
Well. the. uh. Gilead Army
has approved a house.
Unfortunately.
it would not be to the level
which your daughter has become accustomed.
But it... it would be nearby.
You know. I... I thought you might like
to be close to your family.
And your friends.
That's considerate.
Becka's our only child.
She's our gift from God.
Although I cannot offer much
in the way of material comfort yet.
I promise I'll do everything I can
to ensure your daughter's
continued service to God.
And her happiness.
Can I offer you a scotch. Commander?
With what you've been dealing with.
I can imagine
you might need something
stronger than that tea.
Thank you. Uh. I'll take it neat.
Oh. certainly. Commander MacKenzie. too.
has been consumed with his work.
given all the fighting at the Boston b...
I... I... I don't want to.
uh. talk shop today.
Well. thank you.
I have to say. Agnes...
is very impressive.
Aunt Lydia has produced
Gilead's finest young women
through unyielding discipline.
It's necessary to preserve their innocence
as God intended it to be.
Such a wise mother.
You're very lucky.
I will always be grateful for the love
and care my mother showed me.
Well. Agnes. Is there anything
you'd like to ask me?
Agnes would never. uh.
presume to impinge upon...
No.
I only hope I can measure up
to your expectations of a wife.
Especially given
you've been married before.
Could I offer you some more scotch?
Actually. I think it is time
for me to head out.
Mm. yes.
Thank you so much
for your hospitality. Mrs. MacKenzie.
The honor was ours. Praise be.
My wife died in childbirth.
It was the worst day of my life.
the day I lost my child.
Under His eye.
Get far. far away from me
before I hit you.
- I'm sorry...
- Fuck your sorries.
You stupid. selfish girl.
Hey. you know smoking's
not allowed. right?
I'm sorry. I just...
Do you think I have a personality?
What?
A personality. Do you see me for my...
- Never mind.
- Yes.
I do.
I see it.
What difference does it make?
It doesn't matter here.
Did you have a nice visit with Becka?
You should go back inside.
Girls. on your knees.
And pray.
Pray for the soul of one of your sisters.
For she has been deceiving us.
But God sees all.
And so too. the Eyes.
They have found her out.
and now she will be punished.
No. no. no! No. no. no! No!
Please! Please!
Please! No! Aunt Vidala!
Aunt Vidala! No!
No! No!
Aunt Vidala! Aunt Vidala!
Please! Please! Please!
Please! No! No!
No! No!
God's will is done.
Now off to bed.
I've always found a brisk walk
clears the head.
Blessed evening. Mrs. MacKenzie.
I didn't hear you come in.
Where's Agnes?
I'm finally ready to confront her
about her ingratitude.
I believe she's in her room.
I assume you know of her indiscretion
with Commander Weston?
You Marthas always seem
to have time to gossip.
Perhaps...
Commander Weston isn't
the right choice for Agnes.
It's not your place
to have an opinion. is it?
My apologies. Mrs. MacKenzie.
That was quite the little
rebellion you staged.
I suppose you thought that was brave?
I'm sorry. Mother.
When I was a therapist.
I dealt with a lot of girls like you.
All of them just as misguided.
But it seems Commander Weston
likes a challenge.
He still wants you.
Men like that enjoy a stubborn spirit.
It's no fun breaking in a horse
that's already docile.
Lord our God.
please protect
this precious child of Yours
and let her know that she is loved by You.
Lord our God. please protect
this precious child of Yours
and let her know that she is loved by You.
Lord our God. please protect
this precious child of Yours
and let her know that she is
loved by you.
It's weird. the things you miss.
Like billboards with ads for light beer.
personal injury lawyers. and outlet malls.
In Gilead. they paint them black.
Like empty chalkboards.
Here we are.
This is the border?
These gentlemen will take you
the rest of the way.
You're not coming with me?
Don't worry.
They'll take good care of you.
I know it looks sketchy.
but it's to cut through the red tape.
They have a friend in Border Patrol.
Under His eye.
This is Daisy. She's a little nervous.
but we've told her
that she's in good hands.
That's right. Daisy.
Good luck.
We'll be praying for you.
- Hey!
- It's contraband.
I mean... you won't need it.
There comes a time
when you have to take action.
when you have to choose your own destiny.
We were teenage girls.
So. fuck it.
That time was now.